Add 11.7 release notes (#197)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-06-04-mondoo-11.7-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.7-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.7 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.7 release of Mondoo, with Ansible playbook scanning, Shodan host security querying, updated policies, and more!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50

> tags: [release, mondoo]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image: /img/featured_img/release-feature.jpg
tags: [release, mondoo]
```

---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.7 is out! This release includes Ansible playbook scanning, Shodan host security querying, updated policies, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

> ### Ansible Playbook scanning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ansible playbook scanning
```
They're a little weird about capitalization but lowercase p seems to win.

Query and secure your Ansible playbooks with cnquery and cnspec using our new `ansible` provider.

```text
cnquery shell ansible my_playbook.yml
→ connected to Ansible Playbook
  ___ _ __   __ _ _   _  ___ _ __ _   _
 / __| '_ \ / _` | | | |/ _ \ '__| | | |
| (__| | | | (_| | |_| |  __/ |  | |_| |
 \___|_| |_|\__, |\__,_|\___|_|   \__, |
  mondoo™      |_|                |___/  interactive shell

cnquery> ansible.plays { tasks }
ansible.plays: [
  0: {
    tasks: [
      0: ansible.task name="ensure apache is at the latest version"
      1: ansible.task name="write the apache config file"
      2: ansible.task name="ensure apache is running"
    ]
  }
]
cnquery>
```

> Using this provider you can create custom security policies to enforce your organizational standards in CI jobs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this provider, you can create custom security policies to enforce your organizational standards in CI jobs:
```
Because you just used "using" in the prev sentence

```yaml
policies:
  - uid: ansible-best-practices
    name: Ansible Best Practices
    version: 1.0.0
    authors:
      - name: Mondoo, Inc
        email: hello@mondoo.com
    groups:
      - filters:
          - mql: asset.platform == "ansible"
        checks:
          - uid: mondoo-ansible-block-error-handling
queries:
  - uid: mondoo-ansible-block-error-handling
    title: Ensure Tasks are wrapped in block error handling
    mql: ansible.plays.all(tasks.none(block == empty))
```

> ### Shodan Search Engine querying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shodan search engine querying
```

> Query domain and IP security information in the Shodan Search Engine with the new `shodan` provider in cnquery and cnspec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query domain and IP security information in the Shodan search engine with the new `shodan` provider in cnquery and cnspec.
```

```shell
cnquery shell shodan
```

> For authentication, you can use the `SHODAN_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For authentication, use the `SHODAN_TOKEN` environment variable.
```

    11: shodan.nsrecord domain="example.com" subdomain="www" type="TXT"
  ]
  tags: [
    0: "ipv6"
    1: "spf"
  ]
  subdomains: [
    0: "www"
  ]
}
```

Query the DNS NS records for a domain:

```shell
cnquery> shodan.domain("example.com").nsrecords.where(type == "NS") { subdomain  type value }
shodan.domain.nsrecords.where: [
  0: {
    type: "NS"
    subdomain: ""
    value: "a.iana-servers.net"
  }
  1: {
    type: "NS"
    subdomain: ""
    value: "b.iana-servers.net"
  }
]
```

Query the DNS AAAA records for the "www" subdomain:

```shell
cnquery> shodan.domain("example.com").nsrecords.where(type == "AAAA").where(subdomain == "www") { subdomain  type value }
shodan.domain.nsrecords.where.where: [
  0: {
    subdomain: "www"
    value: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c"
    type: "AAAA"
  }
]
```

#### Discovery and querying options

Discover all exposed hosts on a network:

```shell
cnquery shell shodan --networks "192.168.0.0/20" --discover hosts
```

Connect to a specific IP address and display all open ports:

```shell
cnquery shell shodan host 8.8.8.8
```

Connect to a domain and display subdomains:

```shell
cnquery shell shodan domain example.com
```

> ### Discover Kubernetes Manifests in GitHub and GitLab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Discover Kubernetes manifests in GitHub and GitLab
```

> Further extend your discovery of IaC assets in your GitHub and GitLab repositories or projects with Kubernetes manifest discovery. With one command Mondoo will track down all your manifest files, no matter where they're hiding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extend your discovery of IaC assets in your GitHub and GitLab repositories or projects to include Kubernetes manifests: With one command, Mondoo tracks down all your manifest files, no matter where they're hiding.
```

```shell
cnquery scan gitlab --group mondoolabs --discover k8s-manifests

> cnspec scan github organization MY_ORG --discover k8s-manifests`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cnspec scan github organization MY_ORG --discover k8s-manifests
```

```

> ### Scan and query SBOM files directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Directly scan and query SBOM files
```

> Query SBOM file content directly with cnquery as if the files are real running assets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cnquery now lets you directly query SBOM file content as if the files were real running assets:
```

```shell
cnquery shell sbom cyclonedx_file.json
```

To inspect SBOM content from Docker Hub:

```shell
docker buildx imagetools inspect mondoo/client --format "{{json .SBOM }}"  |  jq '."linux/amd64"."SPDX"' |  cnquery shell sbom -
```

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### CIS Google Cloud Foundations 3.0

Secure your Google Cloud infrastructure with the latest recommendations from the Center for Internet Security (CIS). This updated policy includes new checks as well as updated audit and remediation steps to match the latest Google Cloud console experience.

> ### Resource Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resource updates
```

#### aws.eks.cluster

- New `nodeGroups` field exposing a new `aws.eks.nodegroup` resource

#### aws.elb.loadbalancer

- New `targetGroups` field exposing a new `aws.elb.targetgroup` resource

#### aws.ec2.instance

- New `networkInterfaces` field exposing a new `aws.ec2.networkinterface` field

#### aws.vpc.natgateway

- New `subnet` field

#### gcp.project.binaryAuthorization

- New resource for inspecting GKE Binary Authorization configuration

#### gcp.project.sqlservice.instance.settings.ipconfiguration

- New `sslMode` field
- New `enablePrivatePathForGoogleCloudServices` field

#### microsoft.policies.authorizationPolicy

> - Add `permissionGrantPoliciesAssigned` to the `defaultUserRolePermissions` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `permissionGrantPoliciesAssigned` field under `defaultUserRolePermissions`
```
To be consistent?

#### windows.feature

> - Deprecated in favor of `windows.serverFeature` which better describes this as a server-only resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deprecated in favor of `windows.serverFeature`, which better describes this as a server-only resource
```

#### windows.optionalFeatures

- New resource to check for optional Windows features on desktop Windows releases

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Improve the output of many complex MQL queries in console check results.
- Discover all resources when scanning K8s manifests

> - Fix incorrect asset names when scanning K8s manifests without namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix incorrect asset names when scanning Kubernetes manifests without namespaces
```

- Improve wording in the weekly space summary emails.
- Improve wording and fix a documentation link in the Jira integration setup page.
- Fix an error querying the `gcp.project.gke.cluster.networkPolicy` resource.
- Fix connection not found errors when scanning some asset types.
- Improve wording in cnquery and cnspec help.
- Prevent some operating system scans from showing up as "other" operating systems in the console.

> - Don't fail discovery in a single VMware ESXi host cannot be reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't fail discovery when a single VMware ESXi host cannot be reached.
```

- Remove non-functional sorting by risk factors in tables.

> - Add a "Type" column in search when filtering by "All" so it's more clear if entries are assets, checks, or CVEs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a "Type" column in search results when filtering by "All" so it's more clear if entries are assets, checks, or CVEs.
```
Is that right?

author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
image: /img/featured_img/release-feature.jpg
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.7 is out! This release includes Ansible playbook scanning, Shodan host security querying, updated policies, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Ansible playbook scanning

Query and secure your Ansible playbooks with cnquery and cnspec using our new `ansible` provider.

```text
cnquery shell ansible my_playbook.yml
→ connected to Ansible Playbook
  ___ _ __   __ _ _   _  ___ _ __ _   _
 / __| '_ \ / _` | | | |/ _ \ '__| | | |
| (__| | | | (_| | |_| |  __/ |  | |_| |
 \___|_| |_|\__, |\__,_|\___|_|   \__, |
  mondoo™      |_|                |___/  interactive shell

cnquery> ansible.plays { tasks }
ansible.plays: [
  0: {
    tasks: [
      0: ansible.task name="ensure apache is at the latest version"
      1: ansible.task name="write the apache config file"
      2: ansible.task name="ensure apache is running"
    ]
  }
]

> cnquery>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
